README.md, before:

# API Endpoint for DW-TAP Project

## About

This is an endpoint repository -- it contains the code that runs a Flask app serving the processed WTK data. 
The processing includes height selection, time interval selection, spatial interpolation, vertical interpolation, and wind rose calculations.    

## How To Use

### Deploy as a Container (requires Docker on the host)

Build:
```shell
docker build -t tap-api:latest .
```

Run:
```shell
docker run -p 8080:80 -it tap-api:latest /bin/bash
```

Inside the container, flask app will run on port `80`.  On the host, you can use any available port, e.g, `8080`, like shown above.  

For a simple test (showing info about the endpoint), navigate to the following URL in your browser (running on the host):
```
http://localhost:8080
``` 

For a more comprehensive test (with HSDS connection and spatial + vertical interpolations), navigate to this URL:
```
http://localhost:8080/v1/timeseries/windspeed?height=67.00m&lat=40.7888&lon=-74.0059&start_date=20110302&stop_date=20110303&vertical_interpolation=nearest&spatial_interpolation=idw
```
This should produce a json output with `timestamp` and `windspeed` values.

For other examples of working queries, refer to the file: `dw-tap-api.postman_collection.json` (look for `raw` attributes). This file can be used by the Postman app (e.g., installed locally, on a laptop), which will cycle through all documented queries and show their status.

### Build & Run Natively (without a container)

```shell
conda env create
conda activate dw-tap-api
python api.py --development
```

### Running Modes

Notice the `--development` flag in the command above -- it makes the endpoint run on port `8080`; for short, you can run: `python api.py -d`. 

*Development* is the default mode (run if no flag is specified). In contrast, you can run the endpoint in the *Production* mode using: `python api.py --production` or `python api.py -p` -- this is what is used in the container deployment described above (to see the details, check the end of `Dockerfile`).

To see how these production and development modes are configured, refer to `config.json` and see what `host` and `port` values are specified.  

## Documentation

Interactive HTML page with API documentation is produced using apiDoc. It can be recreated using (requires installing apiDoc locally):
```
apidoc -i . -o docs/ -t apidoc-template
```
The output can be seen by opening `docs/index.html` in a browser. The flask app is configured to serve this documentation page (and related files) at the "/api" route.

For installing apiDoc on osx, run:
```
brew install apidoc
```

### More about the Project

To read a concise summary of the DW-TAP project, please refer to: https://www.energy.gov/sites/prod/files/2020/02/f72/tap-fact-sheet_0.pdf

## Credit

Code in this repository was developed by Dmitry Duplyakin (dmitry.duplyakin@nrel.gov), Caleb Phillips (caleb.phillips@nrel.gov), and Sagi Zisman (sagi.zisman@nrel.gov) to demonstrate the techniques used in distributed wind resource assessment at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory in Golden, Colorado, USA.

## License

Refer to the file called: `LICENSE`.

Commit message:

Update README.md -- add main links

README.md, after:

# API Endpoint for DW-TAP Project

## About

This is an endpoint repository -- it contains the code that runs a Flask app serving the processed WTK data. 
The processing includes height selection, time interval selection, spatial interpolation, vertical interpolation, and wind rose calculations.    

When UI/API is running, you can:

1. See WindWatts-beta by navigating your browswer to:
```
<server's hostname>:<server's port>
```
2. Run example API query, by going to a link like this (change the values if necessary)
```
<server's hostname>:<server's port>/1224?lat=39.76004&lon=-105.14058
```
3. Check server info at:
```
<server's hostname>:<server's port>/status
```

For a local deployment, these links would be:
```
http://localhost:8080
http://localhost:8080/1224?lat=39.76004&lon=-105.14058
http://localhost:8080/status
```

## How To Use

### Deploy as a Container (requires Docker on the host)

Build:
```shell
docker build -t tap-api:latest .
```

Run:
```shell
docker run -p 8080:80 -it tap-api:latest /bin/bash
```

Inside the container, flask app will run on port `80`.  On the host, you can use any available port, e.g, `8080`, like shown above.  

For a simple test (showing info about the endpoint), navigate to the following URL in your browser (running on the host):
```
http://localhost:8080
``` 

For a more comprehensive test (with HSDS connection and spatial + vertical interpolations), navigate to this URL:
```
http://localhost:8080/v1/timeseries/windspeed?height=67.00m&lat=40.7888&lon=-74.0059&start_date=20110302&stop_date=20110303&vertical_interpolation=nearest&spatial_interpolation=idw
```
This should produce a json output with `timestamp` and `windspeed` values.

For other examples of working queries, refer to the file: `dw-tap-api.postman_collection.json` (look for `raw` attributes). This file can be used by the Postman app (e.g., installed locally, on a laptop), which will cycle through all documented queries and show their status.

### Build & Run Natively (without a container)

```shell
conda env create
conda activate dw-tap-api
python api.py --development
```

### Running Modes

Notice the `--development` flag in the command above -- it makes the endpoint run on port `8080`; for short, you can run: `python api.py -d`. 

*Development* is the default mode (run if no flag is specified). In contrast, you can run the endpoint in the *Production* mode using: `python api.py --production` or `python api.py -p` -- this is what is used in the container deployment described above (to see the details, check the end of `Dockerfile`).

To see how these production and development modes are configured, refer to `config.json` and see what `host` and `port` values are specified.  

## Documentation

Interactive HTML page with API documentation is produced using apiDoc. It can be recreated using (requires installing apiDoc locally):
```
apidoc -i . -o docs/ -t apidoc-template
```
The output can be seen by opening `docs/index.html` in a browser. The flask app is configured to serve this documentation page (and related files) at the "/api" route.

For installing apiDoc on osx, run:
```
brew install apidoc
```

### More about the Project

To read a concise summary of the DW-TAP project, please refer to: https://www.energy.gov/sites/prod/files/2020/02/f72/tap-fact-sheet_0.pdf

## Credit

Code in this repository was developed by Dmitry Duplyakin (dmitry.duplyakin@nrel.gov), Caleb Phillips (caleb.phillips@nrel.gov), and Sagi Zisman (sagi.zisman@nrel.gov) to demonstrate the techniques used in distributed wind resource assessment at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory in Golden, Colorado, USA.

## License

Refer to the file called: `LICENSE`.
